are you brand new to Instagram maybe
you're starting over with a fresh
account or maybe you just started a new
business and your followers are
currently at zero here are the six
things that I would recommend doing if
you're starting from zero in 2023. first
and foremost you need to identify your
Niche other words for this would be a
focus a subtopic or a category that you
are going to be focusing on having a
clearly identified Niche sets you apart
from the crowd it gives you credibility
it allows your account to stand out and
it helps you identify what you're going
to be posting about every single day
speaking of posting every single day and
not to jump ahead of ourselves when you
are consistently posting things that are
related to your Niche the algorithm
learns what your Niche is and it gets
better at showing your content to the
kind of people who would be interested
in it hey I wanted to interrupt myself
really quickly to let you know that just
because you think you know your Niche
you might not actually have it clearly
identified according to our studies 97
of people who think they know their
Niche are actually describing their
industry but with that in mind we have a
free Niche Workshop that you can check
out down in the description below this
YouTube video so just click on that link
and again it's totally free and you'll
understand your niche in 60 minutes or
less so step one identify your Niche
step two optimize your profile including
this is your username your Instagram
title your profile picture and most
importantly your bio you should be
constantly asking yourself the question
why would someone want to follow me
what's in it for them and how can I
communicate that in a succinct and clear
way also keep in mind that your
Instagram username and title are ways
that people can search for and find you
so keep SEO search engine optimization
in mind then post 12 times you need to
have something to look at when people
show up on your profile imagine if we
walked into a brand new bakery and there
was Zero baked goods we need to have
something for people to look at when
they arrive on your profile so post at
least 12 posts it doesn't matter if you
post them all back to back to back but
make sure that they are great examples
of what people can expect from your
account moving forward then bonus tip go
on your Instagram stories and record
some videos that will be used as
Instagram stories highlights some ideas
for some good stories to record is an
about me story a start here story and
and maybe even a story that's
highlighting some of your products and
services if you already have something
that you're ready to sell then step
number four follow the top creators in
your industry or Niche use hashtags in
the Instagram search window to find
these people use the suggested for you
accounts to find other people who are
related and follow them make sure that
you are a part of your community if you
are going to try to grow within a
certain industry on Instagram you need
to be following and at least aware of
what the industry leaders are already
saying speaking of those people step
number five is to engage with those
accounts for two-thirds of your time
rather than giving you a set amount of
time per day like you need to do this
for 15 minutes or three hours I'm just
going to tell you no matter how much
time you're going to spend on Instagram
that day spend two-thirds of your time
strategically engaging with those
accounts and when I say strategically
engaging I don't mean leaving a random
comment that's like love this so
beautiful and I also don't mean
self-promotion where you're saying hey
make sure you follow me for this and
this hey check out Maya account if you
need help with this no no we're not
going onto other people's pages to
advertise ourselves we're going on to
other people's pages to offer insights
to engage to communicate have
conversations and just have our voice
heard within the community that we're
trying to grow and be a part of and then
once you have all of those things set up
and rolling it's time to start posting
regularly when you're first getting
started I would recommend posting at
least twice a day to your Instagram feed
and at least one of those two posts
should be Instagram reels and stick with
it it's going to be tough at first I
know that I know it's a challenge when
you have very low engagement and very
low followers I myself have started over
a dozen different times within the last
year on multiple different profiles so I
want to encourage you to just stick with
it more than 30 days more than 90 days
set a goal for yourself to be consistent
for six months or an entire year don't
worry about the results focus on the
process continue to get better each and
every day and I promise you you'll look
up 12 months from now and you'll be
shocked at just how far you've come